being one of the original 12 smash
characters Ness has gone through quite a
few ups and downs over the years he was
one of the best characters in smash 64
one of the worst in melee got a little
upgrade and brawl and now necess sitting
pretty with a better half of the cast in
smash although his custom specials don't
really change his spot on the roster
they definitely allow you to get
creative with your combos and kills
let's break down each of neces custom
moves and determine the best move set
for competitive and casual play neutral
special one is PK flash and not only is
it necessarily charged and a ton of
shield damage if blocked PK flash can
also kill extremely early due to its
insane amount of knock-back but at slow
travel speed and lack of control ability
makes it quite hard to hit with even as
an edge guard in free-for-alls and team
battles however when there's more action
happening all at once you might be able
to catch people by surprise a fully
charged PK flash will also fill game and
watch this bucket and make oil panic a
one-hit kill so keep that in mind when
playing with or against a game in a
launch neces default side special PK
fire is one of his best moves for
racking up damage it does about 18% and
allows for some pretty big damage
follow-ups down throw is an extremely
good option and if you see them about to
roll away just dash attack instead you
can also use PK fire off stage for some
flashy edge guard setups and it hits
characters at the ledge if they don't
have invincibility down special one is
Sai magnet and it absorbs all energy
based projectiles meaning things like
fireballs and lasers unfortunately
that's it's only function so it becomes
useless against a lot of characters
however if your opponent has a very
powerful energy projectile you can
recover quite a bit of help up special
one is PK thunder which is an amazing
recovery move with a ton of other uses
as well as a projectile it can be used
to rack up damage and create possible
openings saving a teammate offstage and
even filling game a watch's bucket then
there's PK thunder 2 that turns nests
into a rocket that can kill opponents at
ridiculously low percents and if you hit
a wall with it you can immediately puke
a thunder again for another shot at
recovering the big weakness is that if
the PK Thunder projectile hits a wall or
the bottom of the stage or anything
solid like another character or
projectile Ness will fall to his death
so be careful
rising PK flashes neutral special - and
like the name suggests it only goes
upward you can still slightly move it to
the left or right but it's nothing like
the horizontal range of PK flash it also
has less damage and knock-back than
neutral special one but you can hit
enemies much higher or force them to
recover low and it free-for-alls our
team battles you never know you might be
able to catch a few people off-guard
beside special - PK bonfire has a little
less range but more damage to knock back
instead at low percents this can make
for some really cool combos but for the
most part the increased knock back makes
it extremely easy to get out of
unfortunately trading range and combo
potential for a tiny bit more knock back
and damage just isn't worth it with side
special sighs vacuum is down special to
an unlike neces default down special
side vacuum only pulls and enemies not
projectiles it has very low knock back
and damage so it's hard to use
effectively at low percent but try using
it as an edge guard at higher percent if
you like to get flashy up special to
blasting PK thunder is very much like
Lucas's the projectile goes through
enemies instead of stopping making it
easier to recover and you can still
double pika thunder if you hit a wall it
also sends Ness a little farther than as
default up special but doesn't do as
much damage or knock back and being a
slow multi hit move it's possible to di
out of it however you can still get
kills with it and if it sends you off
stage you can grab the ledge by holding
backwards Nets got another one of
Lucas's moves first third neutral
special PK freeze this move has just as
much range as neutral special one but
instead of damage and high knock back it
freezes opponents freezing someone off
stage can mean an easy kill and freezing
someone on stage means free damage and a
possible combo setup it's important to
note that Ness goes into the helpless
ball animation after using neutral
special in the air so always make sure
you have somewhere safe to land if you
do PK fire bursts aside special three
and is exactly like Lucas's default side
special instead of being a multi hit
moved the lightning bolt turns into one
burst of fire with a decent amount of
knock-back unlike neces other to side
specials PK fire burst doesn't travel
diagonally when used in the air allowing
you to keep moving and maintain distance
from your enemy while still being
offensive
down special three forward sigh magnet
is like Lucas's default
special and it's kind of like a
combination of both down special one and
two it can absorb energy product Isles
to recover health but it can also be
used as an offensive move since it has a
hitbox unfortunately this hitbox is
actually extremely small and only in the
center of the sign magnet making it
pretty hard to hit with but if you like
taking risks you can still get some
flashy edge guards up special three is
rolling PK thunder which is a super
powered up version of neces default up
special the projectile is a lot stronger
and rolling PK thunder two kills that
insanely low percents you can even kill
what the projectile itself if you hit
with it close to the ceiling
the main downside is that it has a
little less recovery distance compared
to the other two moves and you can still
get in front of the projectile like you
can with as default up special to
completely block it on the bright side
you can still double peak at thunder if
you hit a wall so his recovery isn't
that bad Nessus custom moves aren't much
better than as default moves so most
players prefer not to use them but if
you do want to mix it up this is the
moves that I recommend neutral special
one PK flash this move is great in 1v1
free-for-alls and teams especially with
a game and watch it kills extremely
early on and off stage and does a ton of
shield damage if blocked it's stronger
and more mobile than Rising PK flash and
it's a much more threatening move than
PK freeze size special one PK fire in
the long run this move will do more
damage overall than the other two side
specials combined the reason for this is
that grab combos and dash techs are just
completely free after PK fire and you'll
be getting most of your damage in using
those moves in combination with side
special down special to side value not
every character has an energy based
projectile so why not use the move that
works on everyone
however down special is pretty
situational regardless of which one you
use so it's just a matter of preference
if you like trolling or flashy edge
guards SCI vacuum is the way to go I'm
special too
lasting PK thunder Nessa's default PK
thunder is great but it's blocked way
too easily by jumping in front of the
projectile up special - on the other
hand goes through opponents and lets you
travel a bit further making it a much
better recovery move
although lasting PK thunder has less
knock-back than the other two moves you
really shouldn't be relying on it for
kills anyways thanks for watching NASA's
Emma so dove custom corner if you want
to see the other episodes featuring
Ganondorf Rosalina and more just click
the videos on your screen or the
playlists in the video description below
I also stream smash Wii U with viewers
every single Wednesday on twitch.tv
slash Smash central official at 8 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time so come hang out
next week thanks for watching and happy
smashing